Editorial review: Document the Summarizer API (#39263)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/summarizer/availability_static/index.md

      - : An array of strings equal to BCP 47 language tags specifying the expected languages of any provided context strings (either the [`sharedContext`](#sharedContext) passed to the `Summarizer`, or a `context` specified during a {{domxref("Summarizer.summarize", "summarize()")}} or {{domxref("Summarizer.summarizeStreaming", "summarizeStreaming()")}} call). Defaults to an array containing a single value representing the browser's primary language.
    - `format`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the text {{domxref("Summarizer.format", "format")}} you want summaries returned in. defaults to `markdown`.
    - `length`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the relative {{domxref("Summarizer.length", "length")}} for the generated summaries. defaults to `short`.
    - `outputLanguage`
      - : A string equal to a BCP 47 language tag specifying the expected language of summaries generated by the `Summarizer`. Defaults to a string representing the browser's primary language.
    - `type`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the {{domxref("Summarizer.type", "type")}} of summary you want this `Summarizer` to generate. defaults to `key-points`.

> EDITORIAL: I don't actually know what the language-related properties default to, or how the browser determines whether a language value is valid for particular browser or not. Needs to be researched.

Author: perfect, thanks.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills with an enumerated value indicating whether support is available (or will be available) for a given `Summarizer` configuration, or `null` if support could not be determined.

Possible values include:

- `available`
  - : The browser supports the given configuration.
- `downloadable`
  - : The browser does not support the given configuration, but it could do if an updated language model were downloaded.
- `downloading`
  - : The browser does not support the given configuration, but it will do when a currently-downloading language model update finishes.
- `unavailable`
  - : The browser does not support the given configuration.

> EDITORIAL: I am guessing at how language model updates are identified and downloaded. Is this something that is done programmatically, or does the app need to instruct the user to do so? I'm assuming how this is handled will be implementation-dependant, but we ought to given an example of how Chrome does it. I probably need to give some more details on "best fit" languages, as per the example mentioned in the spec. More research needed.

Reviewer: - **Yes:** macOS, Windows, Linux
- **No:** ChromeOS, Android

> EDITORIAL: I am guessing at how language model updates are identified and downloaded. Is this something that is done programmatically, or does the app need to instruct the user to do so? I'm assuming how this is handled will be implementation-dependant, but we ought to given an example of how Chrome does it. I probably need to give some more details on "best fit" languages, as per the example mentioned in the spec. More research needed.

Author: https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/pull/26754

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Summarizer.availability()
Summarizer.availability(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An options object specifying a possible configuration for a `Summarizer`. Possible values include:

    - `expectedInputLanguages`
      - : An array of strings equal to [BCP 47 language tags](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag#List_of_common_primary_language_subtags) (as specified in [RFC 5646](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5646)) specifying the expected languages of the input text. Defaults to `["en"]`.
    - `expectedContextLanguages`
      - : An array of strings equal to BCP 47 language tags specifying the expected languages of any provided context strings (either the [`sharedContext`](#sharedContext) passed to the `Summarizer`, or a `context` specified during a {{domxref("Summarizer.summarize", "summarize()")}} or {{domxref("Summarizer.summarizeStreaming", "summarizeStreaming()")}} call). Defaults to `["en"]`.
    - `format`

>       - : An enumerated value specifying the text {{domxref("Summarizer.format", "format")}} you want summaries returned in. defaults to `markdown`.
>     - `length`
>       - : An enumerated value specifying the relative {{domxref("Summarizer.length", "length")}} for the generated summaries. defaults to `short`.
>     - `outputLanguage`
>       - : A string equal to a BCP 47 language tag specifying the expected language of summaries generated by the `Summarizer`. Defaults to `en`.
>     - `type`
>       - : An enumerated value specifying the {{domxref("Summarizer.type", "type")}} of summary you want this `Summarizer` to generate. defaults to `key-points`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - : An enumerated value specifying the text {{domxref("Summarizer.format", "format")}} you want summaries returned in. Defaults to `markdown`.
    - `length`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the relative {{domxref("Summarizer.length", "length")}} for the generated summaries. Defaults to `short`.
    - `outputLanguage`
      - : A string equal to a BCP 47 language tag specifying the expected language of summaries generated by the `Summarizer`. Defaults to `en`.
    - `type`
      - : An enumerated value specifying the {{domxref("Summarizer.type", "type")}} of summary you want this `Summarizer` to generate. Defaults to `key-points`.
```

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills with an enumerated value indicating whether support is available (or will be available) for a given `Summarizer` configuration, or `null` if support could not be determined.

Possible values include:

- `available`
  - : The browser supports the given configuration and can be used immediately.
- `downloadable`

>   - : The browser does support the given configuration, but it first needs to download an AI model, or some fine-tuning data for the model.
> - `downloading`
>   - : The browser does support the given configuration, but it has to finish an ongoing download before it can proceed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : The browser supports the given configuration, but it first needs to download an AI model, or some fine-tuning data for the model.
- `downloading`
  - : The browser supports the given configuration, but it needs to finish an ongoing download before it can proceed.
```
